


**Description of Use Case**

As novel writers go through the drafting process, their document undergoes continuous changes ranging from basic word processing, such as cutting/pasting, markup, and formatting, to reorganizing and revising blocks of text, to even trying out multiple alternative story lines. Often times, this process can span months to years, racking up countless versions. Therefore, managing prose in text files presents itself as a compelling use case for a version control system, such as Git.  

**Why is it a good use of version control (Git/Github)**

Drafting a novel has numerous benefits to realize with a version control system. The main benefit is the ability to track every change the author or their editors "commit" over time, helping to keep chapter rewrites and revisions organized and archived at discrete points in time. This benefit is increasingly helpful in situations with multiple co-authors or editors. Version control also helps with backups of writing drafts. This enables a level of security to ensure the author's work is adequately saved. In regards to a book with multiple coauthors, the "merge" function provides a tool for parts of the book to be written simultaneously and then combined in an efficient way. This aids several individual writers in combining multiple chapters to assist in the novel’s composition. Finally, the biggest benefit is perhaps with tracking "writing experiments," which are a literary tool to test alternative story lines. Using a version control software, any changes or rewrites to the main document can first be done in a "sandbox" or alternate environment. This ensures a controlled process to add, change, or remove parts from the writing draft. Overall, there are several benefits to using a version control software to write a novel, all of them are useful and help make the process of writing a novel more efficient and organized. 

**Where does it fall short in leveraging version control tools?**

Using a version control system for novel writing uses only a small portion of the complete set of tools and benefits offered by such systems. Version control is widely used by software developers to provide a platform for multiple developers to work on the same project. Git, in particular, is a distributed version control system that allows many independent developers to have their own full version of the repository. Let's say there is a team of 20 developers, of those 10 are working on new features for a major level release, the other 10 are dedicated to answering complaint tickets from customers on other existing versions of the software program.  Each developer can work in the appropriate version of the software, making changes, fixes, new features, etc without upsetting the work of the rest. This really isn't leveraged in novel writing. While, as mentioned above, there are times when multiple co-authors or editors may be collaborating, it's certainly not he extent of large software development teams. Another benefit of version control not realized in novel writing is the use of an open-source platform. In software development, there exists the ability to put software on a public platform that allows others to make a copy of your repository and build on that work. One can harness the power of collaboration. In novel writing, authors are not typically keen on having their material available to the general public, let alone granting editing privileges to the public.  

**What would you do differently?**

When several changes are made to a large document, the owner is asked upon merging to reconcile only those changes that have conflicting edits. However, there may be some text that the writer doesn't ever want changed by others (e.g. list of author's names). The 'git diff branch_1 branch_2' can show a list of differences, but for a large document with many changes, something could easily slip by. It doesn't seem (to us, at least) that there is a way to "freeze" or render some text uneditable in a cloned repository or branch to be sure that no editor every changes that text. Such a feature would prevent subtle changes from merging back into the owner's repository without their knowledge. 
